Add documentation on how to use the AAQ operator (#74)
kubevirt/application-aware-quota: README.md

1. VM Live Migration: VM instances run inside pods. Occasionally, the pod associated with a VM needs to 
be evicted from one node and rescheduled onto another. VMs have a large state that requires careful 
handling during migration. To manage this, KubeVirt creates a new pod to transfer the VM state before 
terminating the old one, which differs from how standard pods are moved. Running both pods simultaneously
temporarily doubles the amount of resources the tenant is accounted for and can impact resource quotas, 
potentially leading to migration issues and upgrade failures.
2. In KubeVirt, each Virtual Machine operates within its own container. This means that the virtualization 
overhead, such as the hypervisor, runs within each VM pod instead of centrally on the host, as in traditional 
virtualization. This overhead is factored into quota calculations. In traditional virtualization platforms, 
service providers typically base VM quotas solely on RAM and CPU threads, since users don't directly request 
resources for this overhead or expect its effects. Moreover, the resource requirements for this overhead can 
change between versions without users being notified.

> 

Reviewer: nit: redundant new line

Author: Done.

As a result, deploying KubeVirt in a multi-tenant cluster while restricting hardware consumption 
from different entities is highly challenging. It requires significant resource allocation to 
handle live migrations and manage VM infrastructure overhead. This also couples users to the 
VM implementation, making them dependent on infrastructure overhead that can change unexpectedly.

> **User Story**: Creating non-guaranteed QoS Pods in a multi-tenant cluster

Reviewer: Pods that are burstable can have requests and limits defined. How about
```suggestion
**User Story**: Creating Pods with lacking resource requests/limits in a multi-tenant cluster
```

Author: Done.

This quota is API compatible with ClusterResourceQuota, meaning it shares the same [specification and status definitions](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/ac6757c09496bfab205d499a41daa6ed8815eab6/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1/types.go#L257).

The main differences between the AAQ cluster quota and AAQ quota are:

- unlike AAQ quotas AAQ cluster quotas are not namespaced.
- When creating AAQ cluster quota, you can select multiple namespaces based
  on annotation selection, label selection, or both though`spec.selector.labels` or
  `spec.selector.annotations`. These fields follows the standard Kubernetes selector format.

  **Note**: If both `spec.selector.labels` and`spec.selector.annotations` are set only namespaces
  that match both will be selected

  **Note**: AAQ must be configured to allow AAQ cluster quota management

  Refer to the "Configure AAQ Operator" section for more details. 

Please see [acrq-example.yaml](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota/blob/main/manifests/examples/acrq-example.yaml) for an example manifest.

### How it works

These new quotas are controller-based rather than admission-based. Here’s how they work:

> 1. Scheduling Gates: a scheduling gates is added to 

Reviewer: nit: add a link?
```suggestion
1. [Scheduling Gates](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-scheduling-readiness/): a scheduling gates is added to 
```

Author: Done

   the created pod via a mutating webhook.
   See the "Configure AAQ Operator" section below for more information
2. Controller Evaluation: a controller evaluates whether
   there is sufficient room for the pod according to the quota.
3. Quotas Update: If there is enough room, the scheduling gate is removed from 
   the pod, and the quotas used status is updated accordingly.

***Warning***: Pods that set `.spec.nodeName` are not allowed to use in any namespace where AAQ Operates.
For more information please see [this discussion](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3521#issuecomment-2016957473).

non-schedulable resources are supported by both AAQ quota and AAQ cluster 
quota by managing a k8s resource quota behind the scenes.

**Note**: Managed ClusterResourceQuota is only created on OpenShift distributions, as
ClusterResourceQuota is supported only on OpenShift. In non-OpenShift environments, only
pod-level boundaries are allowed with AAQ cluster quota.

The primary purpose of these managed quotas is to set unified quotas for all boundaries, eliminating
the need to manage both ResourceQuota and AAQ quota, or
ClusterResourceQuota and AAQ cluster quota separately.

> 

Reviewer: nit: redundant newline

Author: Done

To simplify the implementation of the sidecar container, you can use the [libsidecar](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/main/libsidecar/sidecar.go) library. 
To implement the sidecar container, you need to implement the following interface:

```go
type SidecarCalculator interface {
    PodUsageFunc(podToEvaluate *corev1.Pod, existingPods []*corev1.Pod) (corev1.ResourceList, bool, error)
}
```

The PodUsageFunc function takes as input the pod that needs to be evaluated and all the other pods in the cluster. 
It returns the resources that should be counted for this pod, a boolean indicating if the pod belongs to an
application policy and an error.

If a pod doesn’t match any policy, the native quota evaluation applies, just like with the standard ResourceQuota.

If a pod matches multiple policies, all matching policies are evaluated, and the results are summed up.
Please see [label-sidecar.go](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota/blob/main/example_sidecars/label-sidecar/cmd/label-sidecar.go) for an example sidecar policy.

> for an example sidecar policy.

Reviewer: This line looks like a leftover

Author: Done

To configure AAQ Operator, set the following fields of the aaq object:

* `aaq.spec.namespaceSelector` - determines in which namespaces AAQ's scheduling gate will be added to pods at creation time. This field follows the standard Kubernetes selector format.

    ***Important Note***: if a namespace selector is not being defined, AAQ would target namespaces with the `application-aware-quota/enable-gating` label as default.

    ***Warning***: Pods that set `.spec.nodeName` are not allowed to use in any namespace that AAQ is targeting. Such pods would fail at creation time. Therefore, users shouldn't be targeting system namespaces where `.spec.nodeName` might be set.
    
    For more information please see [this discussion](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3521#issuecomment-2016957473)

* `aaq.spec.configuration.allowApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota` - (default = false) - allows creation and management of ClusterAppsResourceQuota.

  ***Note***: this might lead to longer scheduling time.

* `aaq.spec.configuration.SidecarEvaluators` - Slice of standard Kubernetes container objects. Adding containers to the SidecarEvaluators includes a 

> sidecar calculator for custom counting. These containers should mount a directory under `/var/run/aaq-sockets` called `sockets-dir` and use gRPC to send 

Reviewer: I think we should emphasize that it's an emptyDir volume, since I assume the same volume would be used by the "main" AAQ container?

Also, why does the mount path matters here? Isn't the only thing that's important is to use the same emptyDir volume, and to place the socket in a known location inside that volume?

Maybe `libsidecar` assumes this is the location? Perhaps we should emphasize that as well / make it configurable?

```suggestion
sidecar calculator for custom counting. These containers should mount an emptyDir volume under `/var/run/aaq-sockets` called `sockets-dir` and use gRPC to send 
```

Author: Well i guess we can make it configurable in a future PR.
I changed the directory to emtyDir volume.

THanks!

the custom counting evaluation results to the controller. The setup, including gRPC client/server, is simplified with the [libsidecar](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/main/libsidecar/sidecar.go) library, 
which handles the heavy lifting.

  We've implemented a [simplistic side-car container](https://github.com/Barakmor1/application-aware-quota/tree/adddoc/example_sidecars/label-sidecar) for education purposes. Let's use it as an example.
  In order to use it, AAQ needs to be defined as follows:

  ```yaml
  spec:
    configuration:
      sidecarEvaluators:
      - args:
        - --config
        - double
        image: registry:5000/label-sidecar:latest
        name: sidecar-evaluator
        volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /var/run/aaq-sockets
          name: sockets-dir
  ```

  For an example of sidecar implementation using the libsidecar library, 

>   refer to [example_sidecars/label-sidecar](https://github.com/Barakmor1/application-aware-quota/tree/adddoc/example_sidecars/label-sidecar/cmd/label-sidecar.go).

Reviewer: This points to your personal repo. Is it intentional?

Author: Mistake, fixed

Another issue is that the native ResourceQuotas in Kubernetes are admission-based, which can
cause the resource quota admission controller to become a bottleneck for the API Server during
evaluation and ResourceQuota status update calls. This potential burden on the API server further
exacerbates the challenge of extending the design, such as implementing Multi-Namespace Quota.

Additionally, if a quota is set with `requests.cpu`, `limits.cpu`, `requests.memory`, or
`limits.memory` boundaries in a namespace, then pods that don't set these resources are not
allowed to be created. This essentially means that in such namespaces, best effort pods and some
burstable pods are not allowed. This limitation in Kubernetes was a mistake that currently exists due
to compatibility reasons as mentioned in the following
[link](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/c876b30c2b30c0355045d7548c22b6cd42ab58da/pkg/quota/v1/evaluator/core/pods.go#L89).

## User Stories

**User Story**: Managing VM Billing and Resource Quotas in a Multi-Tenant Cluster with KubeVirt

As an administrator of a multi-tenant cluster with various operators installed 

> , including the [KubeVirt Operator](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt?tab=readme-ov-file#introduction) 

Reviewer 2: This looks out of place. Perhaps move the leading comma to the previous line?

Author: Done.

# application-aware-quota
Empower users to customize and manage resource quotas per component in Kubernetes, utilizing the scheduling gates feature.

## Motivation
In a multi-tenant cluster where multiple users or teams share a Kubernetes cluster, 
there is a risk that one team might consume more than its fair share of resources. 
Resource quotas are a tool for administrators to manage and mitigate this concern.

Native ResourceQuotas in Kubernetes are designed to handle predefined pod resources such as
`requests.cpu`, `limits.cpu`, `requests.memory`, `limits.memory`, and more. This architecture
wasn't designed to be easily extendable.

Native pod resources are often considered implementation details that can change across different development 

> stages or versions of Kubernetes Operators.

Author: Done

Because ResourceQuotas are not extendable they are not suited for more complex scenarios, such as limiting 
resources based on the broader application's context rather than solely on the pod's resource requirements. 
With AAQ, it's possible to not take into account the pod's resource requirements into consideration at all, 
but instead base it on other, possible multiple factors such as different pod(s) fields, CRD fields, and more.

Another issue is that the native ResourceQuotas in Kubernetes are admission-based, which can
cause the resource quota admission controller to become a bottleneck for the API Server during
evaluation and ResourceQuota status update calls. This potential burden on the API server further

> exacerbates the challenge of extending the design, such as implementing Multi-Namespace Quota.

Author: DONE

Additionally, if a quota is set with `requests.cpu`, `limits.cpu`, `requests.memory`, or
`limits.memory` boundaries in a namespace, then pods that don't set these resources are not
allowed to be created. This essentially means that in such namespaces, best effort pods and some
burstable pods are not allowed. This limitation in Kubernetes was a mistake that currently exists due
to compatibility reasons as mentioned in the following

> [link](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/c876b30c2b30c0355045d7548c22b6cd42ab58da/pkg/quota/v1/evaluator/core/pods.go#L89).

Author: Done

## User Stories

**User Story**: Managing VM Billing and Resource Quotas in a Multi-Tenant Cluster with KubeVirt

> As an administrator of a multi-tenant cluster with various operators installed ,

Author: DONE

including the [KubeVirt Operator](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt?tab=readme-ov-file#introduction),

> I need to bill tenants for VM virtual resources defined by the VM object.

Author: DONE

KubeVirt is an operator that enables the deployment and management of virtual machines alongside 

> containerized applications. However, this presents specific challenges with resource quotas:

Author: Done

1. VM Live Migration: VM instances run inside pods. Occasionally, the pod associated with a VM needs to 
be evicted from one node and rescheduled onto another. VMs have a large state that requires careful 
handling during migration. To manage this, KubeVirt creates a new pod to transfer the VM state before 
terminating the old one, which differs from how standard pods are moved. Running both pods simultaneously 

> can impact resource quotas, potentially leading to migration issues and upgrade failures.

Author: DONE

2. Billing Considerations: Service providers typically bill VMs similarly to platforms 
like OpenStack, based on RAM size and CPU threads. However, KubeVirt's pods must account 

> for infrastructure overhead, which complicates resource quota management.

Author: Um i think that we should keep this part simple i wasn't able to find a simpler way to explain it.

> for infrastructure overhead, which complicates resource quota management.

Author: Done, i hope it's better now :)

As a result, deploying KubeVirt in a multi-tenant cluster while restricting hardware consumption 
from different entities is highly challenging. It requires significant resource allocation to 
handle live migrations and manage VM infrastructure overhead. This also couples users to the 
VM implementation, making them dependent on infrastructure overhead that can change unexpectedly.

> **User Story**: Creating Non-Guaranteed QoS pods in a Multi-Tenant Cluster

Author: Done

As a user in a multi-tenant Kubernetes cluster, I need to deploy best-effort pods for low-priority 
workloads, which should utilize spare cluster resources and be the first to terminate during shortages. 
However, there’s a catch: my namespace has a ResourceQuota enforced by the cluster administrator. 
Currently, this quota might restrict the creation of pods that do not specify `requests.cpu`, `limits.cpu`, 
`requests.memory`, or `limits.memory`. This limitation prevents the deployment of best-effort pods and 
certain burstable pods in my namespace.

**User Story**: Managing Resource Quota Across Multiple Namespaces

As an administrator responsible for a multi-tenant Kubernetes cluster, I need to establish resource 
boundaries for a tenant that uses multiple namespaces. However, the native ResourceQuotas in Kubernetes 
are namespaced, meaning they apply only within individual namespaces. This limitation prevents me from
setting global resource boundaries that span multiple namespaces for a single tenant.

## Solution: Application Aware Resource Quota and Application Aware Cluster Resource Quota

> The AAQ Operator use a different approach compared to the native ResourceQuota. the AAQ Operator 

Author: Done

[specification and status definitions](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/ac6757c09496bfab205d499a41daa6ed8815eab6/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1/types.go#L46).

Please see [arq-example.yaml](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota/blob/main/manifests/examples/arq-example.yaml) for an example manifest.

### Application Aware Cluster Resource Quota
The AAQ Operator includes a Multi-Namespace Quota called ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota,
ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota is inspired by the 
[ClusterResourceQuota available in OpenShift distributions](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/applications/quotas/quotas-setting-across-multiple-projects.html).
This brings entire new capabilities to plain ResourceQuotas, which only support a per-namespace restrictions.

This quota is API compatible with ClusterResourceQuota, meaning it shares the same [specification and status definitions](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/ac6757c09496bfab205d499a41daa6ed8815eab6/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1/types.go#L257).

The main differences between the ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota and ApplicationAwareResourceQuota are:

> - unlike ApplicationAwareResourceQuotas ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota are not namespaced.

Author: Done

- When creating ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota, you can select multiple namespaces based
  on annotation selection, label selection, or both though`spec.selector.labels` or
  `spec.selector.annotations`. These fields follows the standard Kubernetes selector format.

  **Note**: If both `spec.selector.labels` and`spec.selector.annotations` are set only namespaces
  that match both will be selected

  **Note**: AAQ must be configured to allow ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota management

  Refer to the "Configure AAQ Operator" section for more details. 

Please see [acrq-example.yaml](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota/blob/main/manifests/examples/acrq-example.yaml) for an example manifest.

> ### New approach

Author: Done

These new quotas are controller-based rather than admission-based. Here’s how they work:

For resource boundaries defined in the quotas, affected by pod creation, 
deletion, or changes—like `limits.memory`, `pods`, `requests.ephemeral-storage`, and others:

**Note**: These resources include not just the standard Kubernetes resources but also those
counted in Pluggable policies.

> Refer to the "Pluggable policies for custom counting" section for more details.

Author: Done

1. Scheduling Gates: Scheduling gates are added to pods within namespaces where
   the pod's namespace match the namespaceSelector in the AAQ object.

> 

Author: Done

   See the "Configure AAQ Operator" section below for more information
2. Controller Evaluation: Once a pod is created, a controller evaluates whether
   there is sufficient room for the pod in the namespace according to the 
   pluggable policies defined in the AAQ object and the quotas enforced in 

>    these namespaces.

Author: Done

   the pod, and the quotas used status is updated accordingly.

***Warning***: Pods that set `.spec.nodeName` are not allowed to use in any namespace where AAQ Operates.
For more information please see [this discussion](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3521#issuecomment-2016957473).

For resource boundaries in the ApplicationAwareResourceQuota affected by objects not requiring
scheduling, the AAQ Operator creates and manages a ResourceQuota. This ensures changes in the
ApplicationAwareResourceQuota specifications update the managed ResourceQuota specifications,
and updates to the managed ResourceQuota status reflect back to the
ApplicationAwareResourceQuota status, keeping them in sync.

Similarly, for resource boundaries in the ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota affected by objects
not requiring scheduling, the AAQ Operator creates and manages a ClusterResourceQuota. This
ensures changes in the ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota specifications update the managed
ClusterResourceQuota specifications, and updates to the managed ClusterResourceQuota status
reflect back to the ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota status, maintaining synchronization.

> 

Author: Done

**Note**: Managed ClusterResourceQuota is only created on OpenShift distributions, as
ClusterResourceQuota is supported only on OpenShift. In non-OpenShift environments, only

> pods related boundaries are allowed with ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota.

Author: DONE

> The primary purpose of these managed quotas is to set unified quotas for all boundaries, eliminating

Author: Done

To define how you want resources to be counted for your application, you should set a sidecar container 
in the AAQ object, where you configure the AAQ Operator. More details can be found in the "Configure AAQ Operator" section.

To simplify the implementation of the sidecar container, you can use the [libsidecar](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/main/libsidecar/sidecar.go) library. 
To implement the sidecar container, you need to implement the following interface:

```go
type SidecarCalculator interface {
    PodUsageFunc(podToEvaluate *corev1.Pod, existingPods []*corev1.Pod) (corev1.ResourceList, bool, error)
}
```

The PodUsageFunc function takes as input the pod that needs to be evaluated and all the other pods in the cluster. 
It returns the resources that should be counted for this pod, a boolean indicating if the pod belongs to an 
application policy, and an error if something goes wrong during the evaluation.

If a pod doesn't belong to a policy defined in the AAQ object, the policy won't be considered, or if an
error has occurred, the policy won't be considered. In other words, the returned ResourceList is

> ignored.

Author: The idea here is that there could be multiple policies, and depending on the scenario:

1. If no policy matches or returns an error for a pod, the native quota calculation will apply.
2. If one policy matches while the other policies do not match or return an error for the pod, the calculation will be based on the single policy that matched.
3. If multiple policies match the pod, the result will be the sum of all the policies' results.

> ignored.

Author: I simplified the text to make it clearer. Please let me know what you think.

If a pod does not belong to any policy, native quota evaluation will apply, and pod counting will be
the same as native ResourceQuota counting.

If a pod belongs to multiple policies, the evaluation of all these policies will 
apply to this pod, and the counting will be the sum of all policy evaluations.

> 

Reviewer: nit: redundant newline

Author: Done

Please see [label-sidecar.go](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota/blob/main/example_sidecars/label-sidecar/cmd/label-sidecar.go) for an example sidecar policy.

> for an example sidecar policy.

Reviewer: This is awesome :+1:

### Configure AAQ Operator

> 

Reviewer: nit: redundant newline

Author: Done :)

To configure AAQ Operator, set the following fields of the aaq object:

* `aaq.spec.namespaceSelector` - determines in which namespaces AAQ's scheduling gate will be added to pods at creation time. This field follows the standard Kubernetes selector format.

    ***Important Note***: if a namespace selector is not being defined, AAQ would target namespaces with the `application-aware-quota/enable-gating` label as default.

    ***Warning***: Pods that set `.spec.nodeName` are not allowed to use in any namespace that AAQ is targeting. Such pods would fail at creation time. Therefore, users shouldn't be targeting system namespaces where `.spec.nodeName` might be set.
    
    For more information please see [this discussion](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3521#issuecomment-2016957473)

> * `aaq.spec.configuration.allowApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota` - (default = false) - set to true, to allow creation and management of ClusterAppsResourceQuota.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `aaq.spec.configuration.allowApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota` - (default = false) - allows creation and management of ClusterAppsResourceQuota.
```

Author: Done :)

>   ***Note***: this setting might have some scheduling time cost where AAQ operates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ***Note***: this might lead to longer scheduling time.
```

Author: Done :)

* `aaq.spec.configuration.SidecarEvaluators` - Slice of standard Kubernetes container object. Adding containers to the 
SidecarEvaluators will include sidecar calculator for custom counting. The containers should mount a directory under `/var/run/aaq-sockets` that's called `sockets-dir`.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a very small sentence about the sidecar container. maybe something like "this container will be using gRPC to evaluate the resources the pod is accounted for. The process of setting up the environment (e.g. gRPC client/server) is significantly simplified with the libsidecar library that handles the heavy lifting.

Author: Done

# application-aware-quota
Empower users to customize and manage resource quotas per component in Kubernetes, utilizing the scheduling gates feature.

## Motivation

> In a multi-tenant cluster where multiple users or teams share a Kubernetes cluster with a fixed number of nodes, 

Author: Well the reason i added this is because i saw it in Kubernetes [docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/):
"When several users or teams share a cluster with a fixed number of nodes, there is a concern that one team could use more than its fair share of resources."

But i guess you are right it doesn't have to be a fixed number of node i'll remove it

there is a risk that one team might consume more than its fair share of resources. 
Resource quotas are a tool for administrators to manage and mitigate this concern.

However, the native ResourceQuotas in Kubernetes are admission-based, which can cause the resource quota 
admission controller to become a bottleneck for the API Server during evaluation and ResourceQuota status update calls. 
Additionally, native ResourceQuotas are designed to handle predefined pod resources such as `requests.cpu`, 
`limits.cpu`, `requests.memory`, `limits.memory`, and more. 

> This design is not easily extendable due to the potential burden on the API server, exacerbating the bottleneck.

Author: Done :)

Native pod resources are often considered implementation details that can change across different development 

> stages or versions of Kubernetes Operators. For example, consider KubeVirt:

Reviewer: I would turn this into a bullet explaining the broader use-case:
> It is common for operators to introduce Custom Resource Definitions to represent custom objects. Often, creating such objects results in running a pod behind the scenes. When working in this fashion, the pods that are being created by the operator use the CR's manifest to determine the hardware requirements for the pods. However, the user behind the scenes created a CR, not a pod, which can be considered as an implementation detail. As an admin, I want to account the user for whatever was defined in its level, the CR, and not for the pod's resources which are opaque to the user.

KubeVirt is an operator that enables the deployment and management of virtual machines alongside containerized applications. 
KubeVirt workloads run inside pods, presenting specific challenges with resource quotas:

> 1. VM Live Migration: During VM live migration, both source and target pods are required.
> Having both pods simultaneously affects quotas, potentially leading to migration issues and upgrade failures.

Reviewer: Bear in mind we're aiming this for non-kubevirt users who might not understand the mechanics of live migration. I would rephrase this to something more clear to the general reader:
```suggestion
1. VM Live Migration: Sometimes a VM needs to be evicted from a certain node and reschedule onto another node. However VMs are different than containers in the sense that they carry a large state that cannot be deleted during migrations like with pods which are ephemeral in nature. To achieve that, Kubevirt schedules a new VM instance, transfers the state from the old instance, and only then removes the old instance. Having both VM instances (that run inside pods) simultaneously leads to unfair resource accounting and might potentially lead to migration issues and upgrade failures.
```

Author: Done.

2. Billing Considerations: Service providers typically bill VMs similarly to platforms 
like OpenStack, based on RAM size and CPU threads. However, KubeVirt's pods must account 
for infrastructure overhead, which complicates resource quota management.

> As a result, deploying KubeVirt in a multi-tenant cluster is highly challenging. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, deploying KubeVirt in a multi-tenant cluster while restricting hardware consumption from different entities is highly challenging. 
```

Author: Done

It requires significant resource allocation to handle live migrations and manage VM infrastructure 
overhead. This also couples users to the VM implementation, making them dependent on infrastructure 

> overhead that can change unexpectedly.

Author: [Yes, it does](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/#resource-quota-for-extended-resources), but from what I understood, this only applies to resources that are tied to a node (unlike the kubevirt example).

> overhead that can change unexpectedly.

Author: Done

> ## Overcoming Resource Quota Challenges with ApplicationAwareResourceQuota

Reviewer: How about
```suggestion
## Solution: Application Aware Resource Quota
```

Author: Done.

To address these challenges, the AAQ Operator use a different approach compared to the 
native ResourceQuota. To avoid API server overhead, the AAQ Operator introduces an alternative 

> quota implementation called ApplicationAwareResourceQuota.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quota implementation by the form of a Custom Resource Definition called ApplicationAwareResourceQuota.
```

Author: Done

> The ApplicationAwareResourceQuota is API compatible with the native ResourceQuota, meaning it shares the same [specification and status definitions](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/ac6757c09496bfab205d499a41daa6ed8815eab6/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1/types.go#L46).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ApplicationAwareResourceQuota API is compatible with the native ResourceQuota, meaning it shares the same [specification and status definitions](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/ac6757c09496bfab205d499a41daa6ed8815eab6/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1/types.go#L46).
```

> The ApplicationAwareResourceQuota is API compatible with the native ResourceQuota, meaning it shares the same [specification and status definitions](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/ac6757c09496bfab205d499a41daa6ed8815eab6/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1/types.go#L46).

Reviewer: Bear in mind that the code link references a certain commit.
Perhaps referencing main is better?
https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/main/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1/types.go#L46

You can also use a permalink: https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/ac6757c09496bfab205d499a41daa6ed8815eab6/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1/types.go#L46.

The pro is that the code will stay the same, so if the code updates it will always refer to the same code. This is also a con since on code updates the docs should be updated. WDYT?

> Please see `manifests/examples/arq-example.yaml` for an example manifest.

Reviewer: How about linking it?
```suggestion
Please see [arq-example.yaml](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota/blob/main/manifests/examples/arq-example.yaml) for an example manifest.
```

Author: yep, make sense

> This new quota is controller-based rather than admission-based. Here’s how it works:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new quota is controller-based rather than admission-based, and manages native ResourceQuota objects. Here’s how it works:
```

Author: i added some info about the managed ResourceQuota,
please let me know what you think :)

1. Scheduling Gates: Scheduling gates are added to pods within namespaces where the Quotas are enforced using a MutatingWebhookConfiguration Object.

> 2. Controller Evaluation: Once a pod is created, a controller evaluates whether there is sufficient room for the pod in the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Controller Evaluation: Once a pod is created, a controller uses native ResourceQuotas to evaluates whether there is sufficient room for the pod in the namespace.
```

Author: the controller doesn't use the native resourceQuota to evaluates it it only refer to the resource boundaries defined in the ApplicationAwareResourceQuota and affected by pod creation, deletion, or 
changes—like `limits.memory`, `pods`, `requests.ephemeral-storage`, and others.

Author: I also added some information regarding the native Quota management

3. Quota Update: If there is enough room, the scheduling gate is removed from the pod, and the quota used status is updated accordingly.

Additionally, the AAQ Operator allows application owners to define their own policies for how resources 

> should be counted for pods associated with their applications. This enables application owners to hide infrastructure overhead, 
> which is essentially an implementation detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should be counted for pods associated with their applications. This enables application owners to hide infrastructure overhead, 
which can be an implementation detail in many cases.
```

Reviewer: Maybe add `See "Pluggable policies" below for more information`

Author: Right, Thanks!

## Multi-Namespace Quota 

> The AAQ Operator includes a Multi-Namespace Quota called ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AAQ Operator includes a Multi-Namespace Quota called ApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota. This brings entire new capabilities to plain ResourceQuotas, which only support a per-namespace restrictions.
```

> similar to the ClusterResourceQuota available in OpenShift distributions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is inspired by the ClusterResourceQuota available in OpenShift distributions. 
```

Reviewer: Maybe here you can insert the link below

Author: Done

> This quota is API compatible with ClusterResourceQuota, meaning it shares the same [specification and status definitions](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/ac6757c09496bfab205d499a41daa6ed8815eab6/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1/types.go#L257). 

Reviewer: same as above it references a certain commit

> For more information, please see this [link](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/applications/quotas/quotas-setting-across-multiple-projects.html).

Reviewer: I would remove this reference. We can maybe say we're inspired by it, but not reference it as a source of documentation IMO

Author: Done

> Please see `manifests/examples/acrq-example.yaml` for an example manifest.

Reviewer: change with link (see above comment)?

## Pluggable policies for custom counting

To define how you want resources to be counted for your application, you should set a sidecar container 

> in the AAQ object, where you configure the AAQ Operator.More details can be found in the "Configure AAQ Operator" section.

Reviewer: nit: space
```suggestion
in the AAQ object, where you configure the AAQ Operator. More details can be found in the "Configure AAQ Operator" section.
```

To simplify the implementation of the sidecar container, you can use the [libsidecar](https://github.com/kubevirt/application-aware-quota-api/blob/main/libsidecar/sidecar.go) library. 
To implement the sidecar container, you need to implement the following interface:

> ```

Reviewer: this will bring syntax highlighting

```suggestion
```go
```

type SidecarCalculator interface {

> PodUsageFunc(podToEvaluate *corev1.Pod, existingPods []*corev1.Pod) (corev1.ResourceList, bool, error)

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
	PodUsageFunc(podToEvaluate *corev1.Pod, existingPods []*corev1.Pod) (corev1.ResourceList, bool, error)
```

}
```

The PodUsageFunc function takes as input the pod that needs to be evaluated and all the other pods in the cluster. 
It returns the resources that should be counted for this pod, a boolean indicating if the pod belongs to an 
application policy, and an error if something goes wrong during the evaluation.

> If a pod does not belong to any policy defined in the AAQ object, the native Quota evaluation will apply, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a pod does not belong to any policy defined in the AAQ object, the native quota evaluation will apply, 
```

> and the pod counting will be the same as the native ResourceQuota counting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the pod counting will be the same as the native ResourceQuota counting. In other words, the returned `ResourceList` is ignored.
```

If a pod belongs to multiple policies, the evaluation of all these policies will 
apply to this pod, and the counting will be the sum of all policy evaluations.

> Please see `example_sidecars/label-sidecar/cmd/label-sidecar.go` for an example sidecar policy.

Reviewer: full link?

### Configure AAQ Operator

To configure AAQ Operator, set the following fields of the aaq object:

* `aaq.spec.namespaceSelector` - determines in which namespaces AAQ's scheduling gate will be added to pods at creation time. This field follows the standard Kubernetes selector format.

    ***Important Note***: if a namespace selector is not being defined, AAQ would target namespaces with the `application-aware-quota/enable-gating` label as default.

>     ***Warning***: Pods that set `.spec.nodeName` are not allowed to use in any namespace that AAQ is targeting therefore users shouldn't be targeting system namespaces where `.spec.nodeName` might be set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ***Warning***: Pods that set `.spec.nodeName` are not allowed to use in any namespace that AAQ is targeting. Such pods would fail at creation time. Therefore, users shouldn't be targeting system namespaces where `.spec.nodeName` might be set.
```

* `aaq.spec.configuration.allowApplicationAwareClusterResourceQuota` - (default = false) - set to true, to allow creation and management of ClusterAppsResourceQuota.

  ***Note***: this setting might have some scheduling time cost where AAQ operates.

> * `aaq.spec.configuration.SidecarEvaluators` - Slice of standard Kubernetes Container object, adding Container to the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `aaq.spec.configuration.SidecarEvaluators` - Slice of standard Kubernetes container object. Adding containers to the 
```

> SidecarEvaluators will include sidecar calculator for custom counting, the containers should mount directory in /var/run/aaq-sockets called sockets-dir.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SidecarEvaluators will include sidecar calculator for custom counting. The containers should mount a directory under `/var/run/aaq-sockets` that's called `sockets-dir`.
```

>   for instance to add the label sidcar the following setting is required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've implemented a [simplistic side-car container](https://github.com/Barakmor1/application-aware-quota/tree/adddoc/example_sidecars/label-sidecar) for education purposes. Let's use it as an example.

In order to use it, AAQ needs to be defined as follows:
```

>   ```

Reviewer: syntax highlighting
```suggestion
  ```yaml
```

>   spec:
>   configuration:
>     sidecarEvaluators:
>     - args:
>     - --config
>     - double
>     image: registry:5000/kubevirt-sidecar:latest
>     name: sidecar-evaluator
>     volumeMounts:
>     - mountPath: /var/run/aaq-sockets
>     name: sockets-dir

Reviewer: missing a tab
```suggestion
  spec:
	  configuration:
	    sidecarEvaluators:
	    - args:
	    - --config
	    - double
	    image: registry:5000/kubevirt-sidecar:latest
	    name: sidecar-evaluator
	    volumeMounts:
	    - mountPath: /var/run/aaq-sockets
	    name: sockets-dir
```

Author: Done

  ```

  For an example of sidecar implementation using the libsidecar library, 

>   refer to `example_sidecars/label-sidecar`.

Reviewer: full link?
